speaking/index.md, before:

---
layout: category
title: Speaking
image:
  path: /images/RSEConUK19.png
  caption: "Photo from RSE Con UK 2019"
tags:
  - talks
  - workshops
  - conferences
---

I have spoken on reproducible research and open source collaboration at high profile software conferences in the UK.
I am also comfortable and experienced at leading workshops/tutorials for all ranges of abilities.

I am always happy to attend and speak at conferences, and I really enjoy sharing my knowledge with new audiences.
I am grateful to all the conference organisers who have done a wonderful job hosting me so far. :open_hands:

Below, I have listed some qualities that I believe make conferences accessible and enjoyable for a broader range of attendees.
Some of the most enjoyable conferences I've attended have implemented these practices!

- Make a best effort to have diverse participants
- No all white/white-male panels
- Implement an enforceable Code of Conduct (CoC) with clearly defined methods for reporting and dealing with conflicts when they arise. Also provide trained staff to address conflicts and are prepared to handle complaints appropriately. CoCs are only as good as their enforcement!
- Allow participants to share their pronouns
- All areas that are part of the conference must be accessible - remember folks may decide to not self-identify!
- It can be really difficult to get the right set up to run the super amazing workshop you asked me to give - I really appreciate the option to use my own laptop for presentations!

(These points are taken from [Tatiana Mac](https://tatianamac.com/speaking/)'s [Speaker Rider](https://gist.github.com/tatianamac/493ca668ee7f7c07a5b282f6d9132552) which aligns with my own ethos.)

## List of Previous Talks and Workshops

Below is a list of talks and workshops that I have presented to date (in reverse chronological order) with links to the slides or workshop materials where available.

Conference | Date | Title | Resources
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | Build a BinderHub for hosting Reproducible Software in the Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) / [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3404774#.XZzZVOdKgWo) / [Workshop](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | RSE Worldwide: Collaborating Across Borders | [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3377380#.XZzZ3udKgWo)
[UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | Reproducible, Reliable, Reusable Analyses with BinderHub on Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) / [Slides](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)

Commit message:

Add PyData Cambridge info to Speaking page

speaking/index.md, after:

---
layout: category
title: Speaking
image:
  path: /images/RSEConUK19.png
  caption: "Photo from RSE Con UK 2019"
tags:
  - talks
  - workshops
  - conferences
---

I have spoken on reproducible research and open source collaboration at high profile software conferences in the UK.
I am also comfortable and experienced at leading workshops/tutorials for all ranges of abilities.

I am always happy to attend and speak at conferences, and I really enjoy sharing my knowledge with new audiences.
I am grateful to all the conference organisers who have done a wonderful job hosting me so far. :open_hands:

Below, I have listed some qualities that I believe make conferences accessible and enjoyable for a broader range of attendees.
Some of the most enjoyable conferences I've attended have implemented these practices!

- Make a best effort to have diverse participants
- No all white/white-male panels
- Implement an enforceable Code of Conduct (CoC) with clearly defined methods for reporting and dealing with conflicts when they arise. Also provide trained staff to address conflicts and are prepared to handle complaints appropriately. CoCs are only as good as their enforcement!
- Allow participants to share their pronouns
- All areas that are part of the conference must be accessible - remember folks may decide to not self-identify!
- It can be really difficult to get the right set up to run the super amazing workshop you asked me to give - I really appreciate the option to use my own laptop for presentations!

(These points are taken from [Tatiana Mac](https://tatianamac.com/speaking/)'s [Speaker Rider](https://gist.github.com/tatianamac/493ca668ee7f7c07a5b282f6d9132552) which aligns with my own ethos.)

## List of Previous Talks and Workshops

Below is a list of talks and workshops that I have presented to date (in reverse chronological order) with links to the slides or workshop materials where available.

Conference | Date | Title | Resources
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
[PyData Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-Cambridge-Meetup/events/267902974/) | 29 January 2020 | Reproducible Research: An Introduction to _The Turing Way_ and Binder | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/pydata_cam_abstract.md) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3628296) / [Tutorial](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-tutorial)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | Build a BinderHub for hosting Reproducible Software in the Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) / [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3404774#.XZzZVOdKgWo) / [Workshop](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | RSE Worldwide: Collaborating Across Borders | [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3377380#.XZzZ3udKgWo)
[UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | Reproducible, Reliable, Reusable Analyses with BinderHub on Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) / [Slides](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)
