content/blog/hugo-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: "Create a Blog with Hugo and GitHub Pages"
date: 2021-06-24T16:28:20+01:00
tags:
  - lesson
  - website
  - hugo
  - continuous-integration
  - continuous-deployment
---

As a scientist in today's ever connected, digital world, having a platform to talk about one's work can be a really useful tool.
Whether you're looking to strike up new collaborations or promote your freshly published paper, a blog can help signal boost your work and function as an archive of your ideas (the developed and forgotten).

I put together a tutorial for building a blog site from scratch using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - the same tools I use to host this site!

- :sparkles: You can find the written instructions here: [sgibson91.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/](https://sgibson91.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/)
- :sparkles: You can also follow along with the YouTube video below.
  I go quite fast :rocket: so feel free to pause and rewind as much as you need!

{{< youtube _STFQc9Y2zY >}}

### Thanks

- :sparkles: [Whitaker Lab](https://whitaker-lab.netlify.app/) for letting me trial this tutorial on them and recording it!
- :sparkles: [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org) for their fantastic lesson template to create the website
- :sparkles: [_The Turing Way_](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/) for hosting the video on their YouTube account

Commit message:

Add announcement that the written instructions have moved

content/blog/hugo-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: "Create a Blog with Hugo and GitHub Pages"
date: 2021-06-24T16:28:20+01:00
tags:
  - lesson
  - website
  - hugo
  - continuous-integration
  - continuous-deployment
---

As a scientist in today's ever connected, digital world, having a platform to talk about one's work can be a really useful tool.
Whether you're looking to strike up new collaborations or promote your freshly published paper, a blog can help signal boost your work and function as an archive of your ideas (the developed and forgotten).

I put together a tutorial for building a blog site from scratch using [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - the same tools I use to host this site!

> :information: **The website has moved!**
>
> This lesson has now been transferred to the [Carpentries Incubator](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) and can be found here: [carpentries-incubator.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/)

- :sparkles: You can find the written instructions here: [sgibson91.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/](https://sgibson91.github.io/blogging-with-hugo-and-github-pages/)
- :sparkles: You can also follow along with the YouTube video below.
  I go quite fast :rocket: so feel free to pause and rewind as much as you need!

{{< youtube _STFQc9Y2zY >}}

### Thanks

- :sparkles: [Whitaker Lab](https://whitaker-lab.netlify.app/) for letting me trial this tutorial on them and recording it!
- :sparkles: [The Carpentries](https://carpentries.org) for their fantastic lesson template to create the website
- :sparkles: [_The Turing Way_](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/) for hosting the video on their YouTube account
