content/media.md, before:

---
title: "Media"
layout: "single-lastmod"
---

A collection of external media posts that discuss projects that Sarah is involved in or that have interviewed Sarah directly (in reverse chronological order).

- [Society of Research Software Engineering: Career Case Study](https://society-rse.org/careers/case-studies/Sarah-Gibson/)
- [Mouse vs Python: PyDev of the Week](https://www.blog.pythonlibrary.org/2021/11/08/pydev-of-the-week-sarah-gibson/)
- [The Turing Podcast](https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/turing-podcast), Episode #15 - [Reproducible Data Science: How hard can it be?](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1OVxFUA5UyIfMSCd842wjD?si=wxRI8YovR52aiA38y-LMyQ)
- [CogX 2020 Tools, Practices, and Systems panel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjtLKjTHCI0)
- Software Sustainability Institute Fellowship 2020 [announcement](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2020-01-10-announcing-2020-software-sustainability-institute-fellows) and [profile](https://software.ac.uk/about/fellows/sarah-gibson)
- ["Make code accessible with these cloud services" _Nature_ **575**, 247-248 (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03366-x?_cldee=c2dpYnNvbkB0dXJpbmcuYWMudWs%3d&recipientid=contact-65a9d3260ce1e811a970002248014773-50f22eb79e424b5497d183f51c4f4e8b&esid=8d4db74b-6801-ea11-a811-002248070f4c)
- [Interview with Ines Juvan-Beaulieu for the _Exploring New Worlds_ blog](https://exploringnewworlds.home.blog/2019/10/10/interview-with-sarah-gibson-research-data-scientist-the-alan-turing-institute/)
- [Impact Story about _The Turing Way_ project by The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/impact-stories/transforming-culture-data-science)
- ["BinderHub is out of beta!" by Tim Head for the _Jupyter Blog_](https://blog.jupyter.org/binderhub-is-out-of-beta-fa2781a229d6)

Commit message:

Add distinguished contributor blogs to media page

content/media.md, after:

---
title: "Media"
layout: "single-lastmod"
---

A collection of external media posts that discuss projects that Sarah is involved in or that have interviewed Sarah directly (in reverse chronological order).

- [Jupyter Distinguished Contributor 2022 cohort announcement](https://blog.jupyter.org/congratulations-distinguished-contributors-bc349fa60d68)
  - [Cross-posted by the SSI](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellow-sarah-gibson-recognised-jupyter-distinguished-contributor)
- [Society of Research Software Engineering: Career Case Study](https://society-rse.org/careers/case-studies/Sarah-Gibson/)
- [Mouse vs Python: PyDev of the Week](https://www.blog.pythonlibrary.org/2021/11/08/pydev-of-the-week-sarah-gibson/)
- [The Turing Podcast](https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/turing-podcast), Episode #15 - [Reproducible Data Science: How hard can it be?](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1OVxFUA5UyIfMSCd842wjD?si=wxRI8YovR52aiA38y-LMyQ)
- [CogX 2020 Tools, Practices, and Systems panel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjtLKjTHCI0)
- Software Sustainability Institute Fellowship 2020 [announcement](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2020-01-10-announcing-2020-software-sustainability-institute-fellows) and [profile](https://software.ac.uk/about/fellows/sarah-gibson)
- ["Make code accessible with these cloud services" _Nature_ **575**, 247-248 (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03366-x?_cldee=c2dpYnNvbkB0dXJpbmcuYWMudWs%3d&recipientid=contact-65a9d3260ce1e811a970002248014773-50f22eb79e424b5497d183f51c4f4e8b&esid=8d4db74b-6801-ea11-a811-002248070f4c)
- [Interview with Ines Juvan-Beaulieu for the _Exploring New Worlds_ blog](https://exploringnewworlds.home.blog/2019/10/10/interview-with-sarah-gibson-research-data-scientist-the-alan-turing-institute/)
- [Impact Story about _The Turing Way_ project by The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/impact-stories/transforming-culture-data-science)
- ["BinderHub is out of beta!" by Tim Head for the _Jupyter Blog_](https://blog.jupyter.org/binderhub-is-out-of-beta-fa2781a229d6)
