content/speaking.md, before:

---
title: "Speaking"
date: 2021-03-07T19:42:32Z
tags: ["conferences", "talks", "workshops"]
---

I have spoken on reproducible research and open source collaboration at high profile software conferences in the UK.
I am also comfortable and experienced at leading workshops/tutorials for all ranges of abilities.

I am always happy to attend and speak at conferences, and I really enjoy sharing my knowledge with new audiences.
I am grateful to all the conference organisers who have done a wonderful job hosting me so far. :open_hands:

Below, I have listed some qualities that I believe make conferences accessible and enjoyable for a broader range of attendees.
Some of the most enjoyable conferences I've attended have implemented these practices!

- Make a best effort to have diverse participants
- No all white/white-male panels
- Implement an enforceable Code of Conduct (CoC) with clearly defined methods for reporting and dealing with conflicts when they arise. Also provide trained staff to address conflicts and are prepared to handle complaints appropriately. CoCs are only as good as their enforcement!
- Allow participants to share their pronouns
- All areas that are part of the conference must be accessible - remember folks may decide to not self-identify!
- It can be really difficult to get the right set up to run the super amazing workshop you asked me to give - I really appreciate the option to use my own laptop for presentations!

(These points are taken from [Tatiana Mac](https://tatianamac.com/speaking/)'s [Speaker Rider](https://gist.github.com/tatianamac/493ca668ee7f7c07a5b282f6d9132552) which aligns with my own ethos.)

## List of Previous Talks and Workshops

Below is a list of talks and workshops that I have presented to date (in reverse chronological order) with links to the slides or workshop materials where available.

Event | Date | Title | Resources
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
[SSI Fellowship 2022 Launch Webinar](https://software.ac.uk/fellowship-programme/2022/webinar) | 23rd September 2021 | My Journey as an SSI Fellow | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1T5wEiE1NsADtojuraPxuJnwOFwGmzm9QdLVlB-2Vt3U/edit?usp=sharing)
[Compute research school, Lund University](https://compute.lu.se) | 22nd and 26th March 2021 | The Turing Way: Reproducible Research and Beyond | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4625923) / [Tutorial](http://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[Remote ReproHack](https://openworking.wordpress.com/2020/08/05/remote-reprohacking/) | 9 March 2021 | Sharing Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3826151)
[SSI Research Software Camp](https://software.ac.uk/RSCamp-research-accessibility) | 22 Feb - 5 Mar 2021 | Boost your Research Reproducibility with Binder | [Intro Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4570595) / [Why you need a computational environment](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4573145) / [Tutorial](http://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[JuliaCon 2020](https://juliacon.org/2020/) | 29-31 July 2020 | Project Binder and the Julia Community: How can we help each other (lightning talk) / Project Binder and the Julia Community: Planning for the Future (BoF) | [Abstract and Video (lightning talk)](https://live.juliacon.org/talk/GVFYUF) / [Abstract (BoF)](https://live.juliacon.org/talk/QF8BC7) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3956320)
[EuroPython 2020](https://ep2020.europython.eu/) | 23-26 July 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Python Environments with Binder | [Abstract](https://ep2020.europython.eu/talks/BqQBN6J-sharing-reproducible-python-environments-with-binder/) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3937310)
[e-Rum 2020](https://2020.erum.io) | 17-20 June 2020 | Supporting R in the Binder Community | [Abstract](https://github.com/sgibson91/ssi-fellowship/blob/main/talks/abstracts/eRum2020.md) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3895699)
[CogX](https://cogx.co) | 8-10 June 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Analyses with Binder at Scale | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3885704)
[Remote ReproHack](https://n8cir.org.uk/events/remote-reprohack/) | 14 May 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3826152)
[PyData Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-Cambridge-Meetup/events/267902974/) | 29 January 2020 | Reproducible Research: An Introduction to _The Turing Way_ and Binder | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/pydata_cam_abstract.md) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3628296) / [Tutorial](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | Build a BinderHub for hosting Reproducible Software in the Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) / [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3404774#.XZzZVOdKgWo) / [Workshop](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | RSE Worldwide: Collaborating Across Borders | [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3377380#.XZzZ3udKgWo)
[UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | Reproducible, Reliable, Reusable Analyses with BinderHub on Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) / [Slides](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)

Commit message:

Add AGU Fall Meeting talk to speaking page

content/speaking.md, after:

---
title: "Speaking"
date: 2021-03-07T19:42:32Z
tags: ["conferences", "talks", "workshops"]
---

I have spoken on reproducible research and open source collaboration at high profile software conferences in the UK.
I am also comfortable and experienced at leading workshops/tutorials for all ranges of abilities.

I am always happy to attend and speak at conferences, and I really enjoy sharing my knowledge with new audiences.
I am grateful to all the conference organisers who have done a wonderful job hosting me so far. :open_hands:

Below, I have listed some qualities that I believe make conferences accessible and enjoyable for a broader range of attendees.
Some of the most enjoyable conferences I've attended have implemented these practices!

- Make a best effort to have diverse participants
- No all white/white-male panels
- Implement an enforceable Code of Conduct (CoC) with clearly defined methods for reporting and dealing with conflicts when they arise. Also provide trained staff to address conflicts and are prepared to handle complaints appropriately. CoCs are only as good as their enforcement!
- Allow participants to share their pronouns
- All areas that are part of the conference must be accessible - remember folks may decide to not self-identify!
- It can be really difficult to get the right set up to run the super amazing workshop you asked me to give - I really appreciate the option to use my own laptop for presentations!

(These points are taken from [Tatiana Mac](https://tatianamac.com/speaking/)'s [Speaker Rider](https://gist.github.com/tatianamac/493ca668ee7f7c07a5b282f6d9132552) which aligns with my own ethos.)

## List of Previous Talks and Workshops

Below is a list of talks and workshops that I have presented to date (in reverse chronological order) with links to the slides or workshop materials where available.

Event | Date | Title | Resources
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
[AGU Fall Meeting 2021](https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting) | 13-17 December 2021 | From Zero to Binder | [Slides and Video](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5767615)
[SSI Fellowship 2022 Launch Webinar](https://software.ac.uk/fellowship-programme/2022/webinar) | 23 September 2021 | My Journey as an SSI Fellow | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1T5wEiE1NsADtojuraPxuJnwOFwGmzm9QdLVlB-2Vt3U/edit?usp=sharing)
[Compute research school, Lund University](https://compute.lu.se) | 22 and 26 March 2021 | The Turing Way: Reproducible Research and Beyond | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4625923) / [Tutorial](http://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[Remote ReproHack](https://openworking.wordpress.com/2020/08/05/remote-reprohacking/) | 9 March 2021 | Sharing Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3826151)
[SSI Research Software Camp](https://software.ac.uk/RSCamp-research-accessibility) | 22 Feb - 5 Mar 2021 | Boost your Research Reproducibility with Binder | [Intro Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4570595) / [Why you need a computational environment](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4573145) / [Tutorial](http://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[JuliaCon 2020](https://juliacon.org/2020/) | 29-31 July 2020 | Project Binder and the Julia Community: How can we help each other (lightning talk) / Project Binder and the Julia Community: Planning for the Future (BoF) | [Abstract and Video (lightning talk)](https://live.juliacon.org/talk/GVFYUF) / [Abstract (BoF)](https://live.juliacon.org/talk/QF8BC7) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3956320)
[EuroPython 2020](https://ep2020.europython.eu/) | 23-26 July 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Python Environments with Binder | [Abstract](https://ep2020.europython.eu/talks/BqQBN6J-sharing-reproducible-python-environments-with-binder/) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3937310)
[e-Rum 2020](https://2020.erum.io) | 17-20 June 2020 | Supporting R in the Binder Community | [Abstract](https://github.com/sgibson91/ssi-fellowship/blob/main/talks/abstracts/eRum2020.md) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3895699)
[CogX](https://cogx.co) | 8-10 June 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Analyses with Binder at Scale | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3885704)
[Remote ReproHack](https://n8cir.org.uk/events/remote-reprohack/) | 14 May 2020 | Sharing Reproducible Computational Environments with Binder | [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3826152)
[PyData Cambridge Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/PyData-Cambridge-Meetup/events/267902974/) | 29 January 2020 | Reproducible Research: An Introduction to _The Turing Way_ and Binder | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/pydata_cam_abstract.md) / [Slides](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3628296) / [Tutorial](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binder-python)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | Build a BinderHub for hosting Reproducible Software in the Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/RSECon19-BinderHub-workshop-application.md) / [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3404774#.XZzZVOdKgWo) / [Workshop](https://bit.ly/zero-to-binderhub-workshop)
[RSE Con UK](https://rse.ac.uk/conf2019/) | 17-19 September 2019 | RSE Worldwide: Collaborating Across Borders | [Slides](https://zenodo.org/record/3377380#.XZzZ3udKgWo)
[UKRI Cloud Workshop](https://cloud.ac.uk/workshops/feb2019/) | 12 February 2019 | Reproducible, Reliable, Reusable Analyses with BinderHub on Cloud | [Abstract](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/abstracts/UKRI-cloud-workshop-abstract.md) / [Slides](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/conferences/presentations/UKRI_cloud_2019-02-12/UKRI_cloud_demo_2019-02-12.md)
