media/index.md, before:

---
layout: category
title: Media
image:
  path: /images/media.png
  caption: "Photo by [Denisse Leon](https://unsplash.com/@denisseleon?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/media?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)"
tags:
  - media
---

A collection of external media posts that discuss projects that Sarah is involved in or that have interviewed Sarah directly.

- ["Make code accessible with these cloud services" _Nature_ **575**, 247-248 (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03366-x?_cldee=c2dpYnNvbkB0dXJpbmcuYWMudWs%3d&recipientid=contact-65a9d3260ce1e811a970002248014773-50f22eb79e424b5497d183f51c4f4e8b&esid=8d4db74b-6801-ea11-a811-002248070f4c)
- [Interview with Ines Juvan-Beaulieu for the _Exploring New Worlds_ blog](https://exploringnewworlds.home.blog/2019/10/10/interview-with-sarah-gibson-research-data-scientist-the-alan-turing-institute/)
- [Impact Story about _The Turing Way_ project by The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/impact-stories/transforming-culture-data-science)
- ["BinderHub is out of beta!" by Tim Head for the _Jupyter Blog_](https://blog.jupyter.org/binderhub-is-out-of-beta-fa2781a229d6)

Commit message:

Add SSI announcement/profile link to media page

media/index.md, after:

---
layout: category
title: Media
image:
  path: /images/media.png
  caption: "Photo by [Denisse Leon](https://unsplash.com/@denisseleon?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/media?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)"
tags:
  - media
---

A collection of external media posts that discuss projects that Sarah is involved in or that have interviewed Sarah directly (in reverse chronological order).

- Software Sustainability Institute Fellowship 2020 [announcement](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2020-01-10-announcing-2020-software-sustainability-institute-fellows) and [profile](https://software.ac.uk/about/fellows/sarah-gibson)
- ["Make code accessible with these cloud services" _Nature_ **575**, 247-248 (2019)](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03366-x?_cldee=c2dpYnNvbkB0dXJpbmcuYWMudWs%3d&recipientid=contact-65a9d3260ce1e811a970002248014773-50f22eb79e424b5497d183f51c4f4e8b&esid=8d4db74b-6801-ea11-a811-002248070f4c)
- [Interview with Ines Juvan-Beaulieu for the _Exploring New Worlds_ blog](https://exploringnewworlds.home.blog/2019/10/10/interview-with-sarah-gibson-research-data-scientist-the-alan-turing-institute/)
- [Impact Story about _The Turing Way_ project by The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/impact-stories/transforming-culture-data-science)
- ["BinderHub is out of beta!" by Tim Head for the _Jupyter Blog_](https://blog.jupyter.org/binderhub-is-out-of-beta-fa2781a229d6)
