about/index.md, before:

---
layout: category
title: About Me
---

## Dr Sarah Gibson

<img src="/images/profile_pic.jpg" alt="Dr Sarah Gibson" width="50%" align="left" hspace="20" vspace="20">

Sarah Gibson is a Research Data Scientist at [The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/) (London, UK) as a member of the [Research Engineering Group](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-programmes/research-engineering).
She completed her PhD in Astrophysics at the University of Leicester in 2018 and holds an MPhys in Physics with Astrophysics from the University of Hull.

During her PhD, Dr Gibson gained invaluable data science and programming skills analysing astronomical satellite data and building probabalistic models.
She has since transferred these skills to real-world problems, in a range of domains, through the Turing's challenge areas.
Sarah enjoys the wide range of collaborators and new skills this exposes her to.

Sarah is also passionate about open source projects and reproducible research.
She is a member of the team that operates [mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org), a website that allows a code repository to be reproduced by anyone over the cloud via a single, clickable link (mybinder.org is maintained by Project Binder as part of the Project Jupyter ecosystem).
Sarah was also one of the core developers that launched [_The Turing Way_](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way), a handbook for data science.
She can often be found at conferences giving talks and workshops on using Binder, deploying a BinderHub, and the importance of reproducibility in research.

__More information:__

- GitHub: [@sgibson91](https://github.com/sgibson91)
- Twitter: [@drsarahlgibson](https://twitter.com/drsarahlgibson)
- Email: [drsarahlgibson@gmail.com](mailto:drsarahlgibson@gmail.com) or [sgibson@turing.ac.uk](mailto:sgibson@turing.ac.uk)

Commit message:

Add banner to about me page

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: category
title: About Me
image:
  path: /images/about.png
  caption: "Photo by [Graham Holtshausen](https://unsplash.com/@freedomstudios?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/galaxy)"
---

## Dr Sarah Gibson

<img src="/images/profile_pic.jpg" alt="Dr Sarah Gibson" width="50%" align="left" hspace="20" vspace="20">

Sarah Gibson is a Research Data Scientist at [The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/) (London, UK) as a member of the [Research Engineering Group](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-programmes/research-engineering).
She completed her PhD in Astrophysics at the University of Leicester in 2018 and holds an MPhys in Physics with Astrophysics from the University of Hull.

During her PhD, Dr Gibson gained invaluable data science and programming skills analysing astronomical satellite data and building probabalistic models.
She has since transferred these skills to real-world problems, in a range of domains, through the Turing's challenge areas.
Sarah enjoys the wide range of collaborators and new skills this exposes her to.

Sarah is also passionate about open source projects and reproducible research.
She is a member of the team that operates [mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org), a website that allows a code repository to be reproduced by anyone over the cloud via a single, clickable link (mybinder.org is maintained by Project Binder as part of the Project Jupyter ecosystem).
Sarah was also one of the core developers that launched [_The Turing Way_](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way), a handbook for data science.
She can often be found at conferences giving talks and workshops on using Binder, deploying a BinderHub, and the importance of reproducibility in research.

__More information:__

- GitHub: [@sgibson91](https://github.com/sgibson91)
- Twitter: [@drsarahlgibson](https://twitter.com/drsarahlgibson)
- Email: [drsarahlgibson@gmail.com](mailto:drsarahlgibson@gmail.com) or [sgibson@turing.ac.uk](mailto:sgibson@turing.ac.uk)
