---
title: "40 Before 40 Challenge"
summary: "A list of challenges to complete before my 40th birthday."
date: 2024-09-10T18:29:39Z
series: ["40 Before 40"]
tags: [challenges]
---

https://www.wonderdays.co.uk/blog/40-things-to-do-before-40-to-make-the-most-of-your-thirties

## The List

### Attend a Music Festival in Europe

Gather your friends, celebrate life, and immerse yourself in the electrifying energy of live music at iconic festivals like Glastonbury, Boardmasters, and Download, creating memories that will last a lifetime.

{{< notice info >}}I have been to different UK festivals multiple times, but I would love to attend one in Europe. So I have updated this challenge to reflect that.{{< /notice >}}

### Attend a Sporting Event

From the adrenaline-fueled excitement of ice hockey to the timeless tradition of cricket or the serene beauty of rowing, there's something for everyone to enjoy. So grab your tickets, cheer on the athletes, and experience the thrill of live sports in a whole new way!

### Attend the Ballet

The ballet is the perfect way to celebrate such a special occasion. This timeless experience promises beauty, elegance, and a touch of magic, that will stay with you long after the curtain closes.

### Complete a 3 Peaks Challenge

Taking on a 3 Peaks Challenge is not just a physical feat, but a mental and emotional one as well, making it a great challenge to achieve before you're 40. Hikes require determination, resilience, and teamwork. It's an opportunity to push your limits, conquer obstacles, and emerge stronger and more accomplished than ever before.

### Donate Bloog

Donating blood is a selfless act that can save lives and make a real difference in the world. By giving the gift of life, you're providing hope and support to those in need.

### Go Horseback Riding

Whether you're trotting through serene countryside trails or galloping along sandy beaches, horseback riding offers a thrilling way to connect with nature and explore new horizons. Saddle up and embark on an unforgettable adventure that will leave you feeling empowered and invigorated!

### Go on a Cruise

From the sun soaked beaches of the Caribbean to the geysers and waterfalls of the Fjords, a cruise makes a wonderful addition to your bucket list! Whether you're seeking adventure or relaxation, cruising offers the perfect escape.

### Go on a Helicopter Tour

A helicopter ride is a fun and exhilarating way to step outside of your comfort zone and experience the beauty of the landscape from an extraordinary perspective. It's a thrilling adventure that will leave you with unforgettable memories and a great sense of achievement, knowing that you embraced the excitement of the moment.

### Go on a Skiing Holiday

Whether you're gliding down the mountainside or enjoying party vibes at après-ski, the snowy wonderland provides the perfect blend of laughter and relaxation. And after a day of adventure, there's nothing quite like cosying up by the fireside of a ski chalet, sipping on mulled wine as the snow falls outside.

### Go on a Wellness Retreat

Now is the time to prioritise looking after yourself both inside and out! A wellness retreat offers the perfect opportunity to recharge, rejuvenate, and reconnect with yourself amidst serene surroundings. It's a chance to indulge in self-care practices, nourish your body with wholesome food, and cultivate a sense of inner peace and balance.

### Go on a Whale Watching Expedition

If you've never witnessed the beauty of a whale in its natural habitat, then a whale watching expedition will make an excellent addition to your bucket list!

### Go on a Wildlife Safari

Experience the enchanting beauty of nature up close with a wildlife safari. From fascinating creatures to breathtaking landscapes, every moment promises a touch of magic and wonder. It's a journey that will leave you with memories to treasure for a lifetime.

### Go Snorkelling or Scuba Diving

Explore the secrets of the ocean with a snorkelling or scuba diving expedition. Immerse yourself in the vibrant marine world, surrounded by colourful coral reefs and fascinating sea creatures. This unforgettable adventure isn't just about exploring underwater wonders; it's also a fantastic bucket list experience that allows you to connect with nature in its purest form. Whether you're gliding effortlessly along the surface with snorkelling gear or delving deeper into the underwater realm with scuba diving equipment, it's an opportunity to create cherished memories and witness the beauty of the ocean firsthand.

### Go to a Michelin Star Restaurant

Enjoy exquisite dishes crafted by world renowned chefs, each bite a combination of extraordinary flavours and textures. Whether they're award winning chefs or TV sensations, nothing will compare to the experience of Michelin-starred dining. Not only does Michelin star dining offer a treat to your taste buds but it also provides a truly memorable and luxurious fine dining experience, perfect for celebrating life's milestones in style.

### Have a Colour Analysis

Discover your perfect colour palette to complement your complexion with a personal colour analysis, the perfect experience to make your 30s your best style era yet. This personalised session will help you unlock the hues that enhance your natural beauty, ensuring that every outfit you wear radiates confidence and elegance. Say goodbye to wardrobe dilemmas and hello to a refreshed and refined sense of style!

### Have a Professional Photoshoot

Capture cherished memories with a professional photoshoot tailored to your needs. A photoshoot is not only a wonderful way to preserve special moments but is also one of those unique 40th birthday gifts for her. Let a skilled photographer capture the essence of your 30s era - the milestones, the laughter, the love - in stunning images that you'll treasure for years to come.

### Learn a New Creative Skill

From pottery and blacksmithing to glass blowing and leather craft, there are endless possibilities for exploring your creativity. Creative workshops are an incredible way to discover hidden talents and add a splash of creativity to your life.

### Learn a New Language

Whether it's Spanish, Mandarin, or even sign language, learning a new language opens up a world of opportunities for personal growth and cultural exploration.

### Learn the Art of Mixology in a Cocktail Making Class

Elevate your cocktail game by learning the art of mixology in a fun and interactive class. Whether you're a novice or a cocktail enthusiast, mastering the craft of creating delicious drinks is a rewarding skill to acquire.

### Learn to Surf or Paddleboard

Whether you're riding the waves or gliding along on a paddleboard, there's nothing quite like the feeling of mastering a new watersport.

### Run a 5k

Challenge yourself to complete a 5k run. Training for and completing a 5k run is not only a physical accomplishment but also a testament to your determination and commitment. Whether you're a seasoned athlete or a beginner looking for a new challenge, crossing the finish line of a 5k is a rewarding experience that will leave you feeling accomplished and empowered.

### See an Iconic West End Theatre Show

Step into the magical world of West End theatre and experience timeless classics like Phantom of the Opera, Les Misérables, and The Lion King.

### See an Orchestre in Concert

Experience the magic of live music by attending an orchestra concert, where you can witness the soaring melodies of classical masterpieces and contemporary favourites. With the rise of films in concert, you can also enjoy the unique opportunity to watch beloved movies like Pirates of the Caribbean and Lord of the Rings while hearing their iconic music performed live by a talented orchestra.

### See the Northern Lights

Embark on a mesmerising journey to witness the awe-inspiring beauty of the aurora borealis, making it a must do experience for your 40 before 40 list. Gaze in wonder as the night sky comes alive with dancing ribbons of vibrant colours, painting an unforgettable picture of natural beauty. Whether you're seeking adventure or simply craving a moment of pure magic, seeing the Northern Lights promises to be an experience you'll cherish for a lifetime.

### Spend a Weekend Camping

Sure, there are hard floors, long walks to the toilet blocks, and plenty of creepy crawlies, but there's also the joy of being immersed in the great outdoors, cooking under the open sky, and enjoying a valuable screen detox.

### Take a Cooking Class

In the busy pace of daily life, finding time to hone your culinary skills can be quite the challenge. However, as you approach 40, a cooking class presents the perfect opportunity to not only indulge your taste buds but also to develop new and impressive skills in the kitchen.

### Take a Hot Air Balloon Ride at Sunrise

There's something truly magical about drifting peacefully above the world, especially as the sun begins to rise, casting a golden glow over the landscape below.

### Take a Photography Workshop

Whether you're capturing the beauty of landscapes or the joy of everyday moments, honing your photography skills in a workshop setting can provide invaluable knowledge and techniques to take your images to the next level.Whether you're capturing the beauty of landscapes or the joy of everyday moments, honing your photography skills in a workshop setting can provide invaluable knowledge and techniques to take your images to the next level.

### Take a Road Trip

Embark on an unforgettable adventure as you road trip. Soak in the stunning scenery and sample delicious local cuisine as you explore this magnificent country by road.

### Take a Wilderness Survival Course

Whether or not you're an experienced Guide, Scout, or Duke of Edinburgh awardee, most of us are likely ill-equipped to survive in the wild. That's where a wilderness survival course comes in. Adding it to your 40 before 40 bucket list isn't just about learning essential skills; it's about gaining confidence in your ability to thrive in the great outdoors. From mastering fire-starting techniques to navigating rugged terrain, a survival course is an opportunity to step out of your comfort zone, embrace adventure, and emerge stronger and more resilient.

### Try a New Extreme Sport

If you're a daredevil at heart, then maybe it's time to take your sense of adventure to new heights with a thrilling extreme sport. Whether it's the adrenaline rush of bungee jumping or the exhilaration of rock climbing, there are plenty of options for adventure days out that will push your limits and leave you feeling alive.

### Try Indoor Skydiving

Looking for an adrenaline rush without the fear of jumping out of a plane? Indoor skydiving is the perfect way to dip your toe into the thrill of free falling. Whether you're a seasoned thrill seeker or trying something new, indoor skydiving promises an exhilarating experience that will leave you buzzing with excitement and a newfound sense of adventure.

### Visit the Blue Lagoon

A trip to the Blue Lagoon is one of the most unforgettable bucket list ideas. Immerse yourself in the soothing geothermal waters of this iconic Icelandic attraction, surrounded by stunning volcanic landscapes. It's a rejuvenating experience that promises relaxation, rejuvenation, and a touch of luxury amidst the natural beauty of Iceland.

### Visit a Vineyard and go Wine Tasting

Whether you're wandering through the iconic vineyards of Tuscany or exploring local gems, wine tasting offers a wonderful opportunity to infuse your 30s with a refined skill. The art of wine tasting is incredibly sophisticated, making it a great talent to hone as you approach this milestone age.

### Walk the Coast-to-Coast Path

Walking along this path provides not just a physical challenge but also a captivating exploration of centuries-old history and breathtaking landscapes.

### Watch the Sunrise and Sunset on the Summer Solstice

Experience the magic of the summer solstice by watching both the sunrise and sunset on this special day. The summer solstice marks the longest day of the year, a time when the sun reaches its highest point in the sky and daylight lingers for hours. For an extra special experience, consider a Stonehenge tour to witness the sun rise behind the Heel Stone, an ancient tradition that adds an extra layer of mystique to this already enchanting day.

### Write a Song

Whether you're musically talented or not, writing your thoughts down on paper is a wonderful way to express yourself creatively and connect with your emotions. Writing a song allows you to pour your heart out, whether it's through lyrics that tell a story or melodies that evoke a feeling. And who knows, your songwriting journey might lead you to a recording studio experience, where you can bring your music to life and share it with the world.

## Not Quite 40...

- Go to the races
- Organise a charity fundraiser
- Volunteer for a cause
